(Intro music)
Alright, once again it's time to
practise what you have learned.
And this time I've typed everything in advance,
so you can jump ahead if you want, but I suggest you
just follow along, item by item.
Now I've already gone ahead and created a Kotlin project
called Challenge Two and I've put it into
the usual package, and created a file called
Challenge Two and then created a main function.
You can do this however you want but, obviously
you're going to need a file with a main function
if you're going to run your answers.
So, let's move on to the first challenge.
Declare a non-nullable float variable, two ways
and assign it the value -3847.384.
So basically you're going to declare two float variables
and assign them this value,
and I want you to do it in two ways,
hence two float variables.
So pause the video and give it a try.
Okay, so here are the two ways I came up with,
and you might have done it another way
and that's fine as long as it does
what the challenge asked you to do and the code compiles.
So we'll say val float one equals
and we'll just assign it this float, minus 3847.384
and of course we have to add the F suffix at the end of it,
otherwise the compiler would interpret this as a double.
So that's the first way you can do it.
Now, the second way you could do it, of course,
is to say float one or float two,
float equals -3847.384
and you still have to specify the F here, otherwise
the compiler's going to read this as a double,
and as we said, Kotlin doesn't
automatically widen the numeric values
when you're going to assign them like this.
So you could do that but that's more verbose
than you need to be, you'd want to
stick to this version up here because the compiler,
once you add the F suffix,
the compiler can infer what the type is.
Now, there is another way you could accomplish the same
thing, you could never do this but float three and,
well actually we don't need that,
the compiler will be able to confer this.
So we'll say, -3847.384
and then we'll convert it to a float.
Now again, you'd never want to do this,
this is way too verbose.
So, this is the one you really want, but if you came
up with these two that's fine as I said,
often when you start with Kotlin,
you'll start off more verbose and then
eventually you'll learn to be more concise.
So, that's actually three different
ways you can do this one.
Okay, so now what I want you to do, is I want you to change.
I said both of these variable declarations, because I wasn't
going to show you this one but then I thought, why not?
So, let's just stick with, let's do these two.
Let's take this one away and stick with these two.
So, I want you to change both of these
variable declarations into nullable variables.
So, pause the video and go ahead and do that.
Okay, so of course all you have to do,
is say float question mark
and you'd have to do this for both of them.
Because in Kotlin, variables are non-nullable by default,
because Kotlin is trying to encourage not allowing
null pointer exceptions, so it's just like Val versus Var.
Unless you have a really good reason to declare as nullable,
it should be non-nullable and so that's
the default in Kotlin.
Okay, so that was the answer to
the second question, which is above now.
So, your third challenge is to declare and array
of type non-nullable short, make it size five
and assign it the values one, two,
three, four and five.
So pause the video and go ahead and do that.
Okay, there are a few ways you can do this.
The most concise way to do it,
would be to say val short array equals short array of,
and then, the initial values.
And that's it, that will give you
a shorter array of size five,
I kind of threw the size five in there,
it's a little bit of a trick because,
if you're providing the initial values,
you don't actually have to specify the size.
Now, a longer way to do, if you wanted an array of short
rather than the sort of special short array,
is to go Val short array two, and this time we'll
have to explicitly declare the type.
And then you can just say array of one two three
four five, you'd have to do it this way
if you didn't want to use the special shorter array.
And both of these are actually right because
I didn't specify in the challenge which one I wanted,
so both of these would be right.
If you wanted the special short array that you could
pass to a Java method, that wanted a short,
a primitive sort array, you can do it this way.
If you wanted to use Kotlin's array class,
it's generic array class, and have a short array,
you could do it that way.
So, both of these are acceptable, in fact,
I wouldn't say this is more verbose because if you want
an array of short using Kotlin's generic array,
then you've pretty much got to declare it this way.
Okay, so now declare an array of nullable,
there's an extra L in there,
ins and initialise it with the values five, 10, 15, 20,
25, 30 et cetera, all the way up to 200.
So declare an array of nullable ins
and initialise it with this sequence of values
starting at five all the way up to 200.
Pause the video and try it now.
Okay, while using Lambda expression to initialise the array,
makes sense for this one, otherwise
you're going to have to type out quite a number of values.
So, we'll say Val int array equals
an array and we want a nullable int.
And, you can figure out that there are 40 values that
are going to go into the array.
Because we start at five, we want to go up to 200,
we're going in steps of five and 200
divided by five is 40, so we want an array of size 40.
And then we're going to use a
Lambda expression to initialise it.
So, I'll say I, basically for each index we're going to add
one to the index, because we don't want to start out with
a index of zero and multiply that by five.
Okay, so the way this would work of course, is I represents
the index and the indices are going to go from zero to 39,
because we have 40 elements.
So, the first index will be zero, we'll have zero plus one
is one, times five is five, next will be one.
One plus one is two, times five is 10
and then we'll have two plus one is three, times five is 15
et cetera, all the way up to index 39.
At which case we'll have 39 plus one
is 40, times five is 200.
So , this is a really convenient way, and as you can see.
If we wanted to change the last value and say,
well instead of going up to 200 we want you to go up to 1000
or 5000, all you'd have to do it change the size here.
So, this is a really convenient way to initialise arrays
when you have a logical sequence of numbers.
Okay, so the next challenge, you have to call a Java method
with the following signature from Kotlin.
So the Java method has the signature
Public Void Method One, and it wants a Char Array.
So, for this challenge I want you to declare an array
that you could pass to the method and initialise
the array with the values A B and C.
So, you don't actually have to call the method because,
I haven't written that method,
but all I want you to do, is declare an array
that has the values A B and C, that you could pass to
this Java method that's expecting
a primitive Char Array as a parameter.
So, pause the video and give that a try now.
Okay, well because you want to pass the array to
a Java method that accepts one of the
primitive array types, you'll have to use one
of the special primitive arrays in Kotlin.
So the way that you'd have to do this is Val Char Array
equals Char Array of, and then we have A B and C.
So, in this case that's the way you'd have to do it,
in the second challenge or the third challenge,
rather, when I said non-nullable shorts.
There are really two ways you could do that,
depending on how you took that question.
You could declare the special type short array or you could
just use the generic array and declare a short.
But for this one, you absolutely must use
the special Char Array because, you want to pass it
to a method that wants a primitive Char Array.
If you were to do an array of Char,
like the following, you would not be able
to pass that to this Java method.
So for this one, you only have one choice
and it's got to be the special
Char Array that Kotlin provides.
Okay, so for the next challenge,
given the following line of code, ValEx is a string.
It's a nullable string in uppercase, what I want you to do
using one line of code, only one line of code.
I want you to declare another string variable
and I want you to assign X dot lowercase when X isn't null
and a string I give up, when X is null.
So, using one line of code only, assign X dot to lowercase,
when X isn't null and a string I give up when X is null.
Pause the video and give it a try.
Okay, now while the video is paused I realised that
I had missed out a challenge, so I just typed that in,
I missed it out when I was typing in the challenges,
so that's why this lower part has an extra challenge here.
Getting back to challenge number six.
The solution is, so we'll go Val Z
and we'll say equals, so we're going to say X,
use the safety operator, and we're going to convert
it to lowercase, but then we're going to use
the Elvis operator here, to assign it
the I give up string, when X is null.
So, what we're saying here is,
when X isn't null go ahead and call to lowercase
and assign the result to Z.
But if X is null, then instead assign
the string I give up to Z and we're
using the Elvis operator to do that.
So, let's print the result just to
make sure it's working the way we expect it to.
So, we'll say print line and Z,
I'll come back up here so I can run,
and we'll see that we get the string,
I am in uppercase, even though it isn't,
because we have converted it now to lowercase.
So, because it wasn't null the
result to lowercase was assigned to Z.
Let's change the value null and try running again.
And this time we will see I give up, because it was null so
the default sting that we provided has been assigned to Z.
Alright, so for your next challenge.
Now I want you to use the left function to do two things.
First of all lowercase the string and then to
replace am with am not, in the results.
So, we need to change this back to I am in uppercase.
So, we'll go back to that and we now want to use
that function to lowercase the string,
and then to replace am with am not.
So, pause the video and go ahead and do that now.
Okay, so for this one we're going to start out by using
the safety operator and then call the left function.
And as we can see IntelliJ saying that
we want to block here, so I'm going to put a block.
And we'll say It, that's how we refer to X
inside the Lambda expression dot to lowercase,
that was the first step that we wanted to do.
And then once everything is lowercase, we want to replace
am with am not, so we'll use the replace function
and we'll replace am with am not.
And that will work, now if we want
to check that, we can print it,
so let's put this into print line, and we'll run.
And we can see that the string X was
lowercase and am was replaced with am not.
Okay, so our final challenge is.
You're really, really confident that the variable
my non-null variable can't contain no.
So, change the following code to assert
that my non-null variable isn't no,
and shoot yourself in the foot, because of course it is.
So, essentially I want you to do something to
this code here that asserts, that tells the compiler
that you're absolutely sure, that my non-null
variable is not null.
So, pause the video and go ahead and do that.
Okay, so you might have thought of doing
something like that but, of course that won't work
because then you can't assign no.
So, you've got to keep the variable as a nullable variable,
but what you would do is, instead of using
a safety operator, you'd use two exclamation marks
which is the not null assertion and say no, no
I am absolutely sure that my non-null variable is not null.
Now obviously in this case you would be lying,
and you would get a null pointer exception,
but this is how you would do it.
So, instead of using the question mark, the safety operator,
you would use the not null assertion.
Okay, that's enough practise.
And once again if you struggled writing the more concise way
don't worry you'll get better with practise
and also as I said in the last video, keep in mind
that the less concise ways are perfectly valid,
they're perfectly valid code,
but they're not the Kotlin way.
And also, as I said in a previous video,
depending on the situation, writing the code in a verbose
way isn't invalid, I mean your Kotlin code will still run.
It's just not the Kotlin way.
So as you become a more adept Kotlin developer,
you'll want to abandon the more verbose way
and use the short hand way of doing things.
And that will become more natural to you,
the more you work with that language.
I'll see you in the next section.